#143 AdnGlue Simple Setup 1.4.0 (#148)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/maya/simple_setup.md

</figure>

With this basic paint setup the AdnSkinMerge deformer will now show the results of skin simulation transferred to the final mesh.

## AdnGlue

To make the simulated muscles behave more compact and avoid large gaps between them, an AdnGlue node can be used. To create a basic scenario using the AdnGlue node, start with a scene with the following elements:

  - A list of simulated muscles to be glued together.

The AdnGlue node will take all the simulated muscles provided as inputs and generate one combined output mesh with glue constraints applied.

### Create Node

> To create the AdnGlue node, select the simulated muscles and press the ![AdnGlue](images/adn_glue.png){style="width:4%"} shelf button or go to AdonisFX Menu > *Solvers* > *Glue*. This will connect the selected muscles to the inputs plug of the AdnGlue node and create a combined output mesh as the result of the simulation.

Author: I wrote "inputs plug" because I was referring specifically to the "inputs" parent plug. Let me know what you think, I don't mind changing it.

> To create the AdnGlue node, select the simulated muscles and press the ![AdnGlue](images/adn_glue.png){style="width:4%"} shelf button or go to AdonisFX Menu > *Solvers* > *Glue*. This will connect the selected muscles to the inputs plug of the AdnGlue node and create a combined output mesh as the result of the simulation.

Reviewer: Agreed, leave it as it is!

After the node creation, input muscles can be added or removed from the existing AdnGlue by pressing AdonisFX > Glue > *Add Inputs* or AdonisFX > Glue > *Remove Inputs* respectively.

> 

Author: Added comments for pending screeshonts. Let me know if you disagree with any of them.

> ### Paint Weights

Reviewer 2: Before the Paint Weights sections, it is very important that we explain that Glue Max Distance needs to be changed so that glue connections are created.
I recommend to mention that the Debugger can be used to visualize the connections, so that the glue distance can be adjusted as desired.
This will also allow you to explain the paintable weights from a position where the glue distance is already configured.

Reviewer: Agreed, and then in here, like already mentioned we are explaining how we can modulate this further with the weight painting

Author: I moved that info before the Paint Weights section.

> [!NOTE]

> > AdnGlue requires the use of the Maya Paint tool (not the AdonisFX paint tool) for the painted weights setup.

Reviewer 2: I know we have this note everywhere, but it feels like we should write:
```suggestion
> AdnGlue requires the use of the Maya Paint tool (not the AdonisFX paint tool) for the paintable weights setup.
```

cc @josevalverdeinbibo @lucasferryinbibo

Reviewer: Agreed, let's apply this

Author: Feels more correct to me, if you agree I can apply the change to all the references in this page.

> Once the AdnGlue node is properly created, you can use Maya Paint Tool to paint its weights and correctly set up the node properties. With the default paint settings provided when creating a new AdnGlue, only distance constraints will be applied, so the output mesh will look the same as the input meshes.

Reviewer 2: As I mentioned before, at this point, max glue distance should be configured with a value greater than 0.0. Then we have to adjust this sentence:
```suggestion
Once the AdnGlue node is properly created, you can use Maya Paint Tool to paint its weights and correctly set up the node properties. With the max glue distance previously adjusted, the default values of the paintable maps already allow the node to compute the glue constraints.
```

> Once the AdnGlue node is properly created, you can use Maya Paint Tool to paint its weights and correctly set up the node properties. With the default paint settings provided when creating a new AdnGlue, only distance constraints will be applied, so the output mesh will look the same as the input meshes.

Author: I've rephrased this paragraph so this change is not necessary now.

The most important maps are *Glue Resistance*, *Max Glue Distance Multiplier*, and *Shape Preservation*. The first two are flooded with a value of 1.0 by default, while the last one is flooded with 0.0.

> The *Max Glue Distance* attribute is set to 0.0 by default. Therefore, for the glue constraints to take effect, this value must be adjusted. We recommend enabling the debugger and selecting the glue constraints to inspect the connections created based on the specified *Max Glue Distance*.

Reviewer 2: This should be moved before the Paint section

Author: Done.

> The *Max Glue Distance* attribute is set to 0.0 by default. Therefore, for the glue constraints to take effect, this value must be adjusted. We recommend enabling the debugger and selecting the glue constraints to inspect the connections created based on the specified *Max Glue Distance*.

Author: Done.

> Since the *Max Glue Distance* is initially the same for all muscles, you may want to adjust it for specific areas. This can be done by painting the *Max Glue Distance Multiplier* map. You can paint this map with a value of 0.0 in areas where you do not want the glue constraint to apply. This prevents the creation of the constraint in those areas and improves the simulation performance.

Author: Done.

> The *Glue Resistance* map modulates the strength of the glue constraint. To reduce the effect of the constraint in specific areas, lower the values in this map accordingly.

Reviewer 2: I would also reiterate here that by painting a value of 0.0, gluing is not computed for that vertex

Author: Done.

> Finally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. Increase the values of the *Shape Preservation* map for muscles whose shape has been altered during the simulation.

Reviewer: I would maybe treat it as an optional map. However, from the tests that I did it can improve the simulation results. So let's not discard this option

> Finally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. Increase the values of the *Shape Preservation* map for muscles whose shape has been altered during the simulation.

Author: Okay so maybe I can remove the *Shape Preservation* from this sentence: "The most important maps are *Glue Resistance*, *Max Glue Distance Multiplier*, and *Shape Preservation*. The first two are flooded with a value of 1.0 by default, while the last one is flooded with 0.0.". And apply this modification or something similar:

```suggestion
Additionally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. Increase the values of the *Shape Preservation* map for muscles whose shape has been altered during the simulation.
```

> Finally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. Increase the values of the *Shape Preservation* map for muscles whose shape has been altered during the simulation.

Reviewer 2: It is ok to leave it. My suggestion:
```suggestion
Finally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. These constraints are useful if the gluing produces undesired shape on the output mesh. If that is not the case, then this map can stay unmodified (0.0) which will make the solver run faster. If shape preservation is required, then increase the values on those areas where the shape has been altered during the simulation.
```

> Finally, shape preservation constraints help maintain the original shape of the muscles. Increase the values of the *Shape Preservation* map for muscles whose shape has been altered during the simulation.

Author: I like it, applied.
